Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be implementing patrolling as you can see this enemy is now patrolling
along the patrol path.
We've worked so hard to visualize and he is following it exactly.
He's going all the way round the loop that we have created.
Let's dive in and see how we can do this nice and easily with our Eye controller so ideally I'd like
this guard to follow this patrol path that is around him.
Now the first thing we need to do for that is to have a reference to it.
So I'm going to create a new serialized field and you can follow along with me on this one.
So a serialized field and it's going to be of what type.
It's going to be of patrol type patrol path type because that's what we want to reference to that patrol
path that we've already created.
And as Rick says call the duck a duck I'm going to call this a patrol path.
Now this can be no.
And that's fine.
So we are going to have this enemy enemy nearest the player having a reference to a patrol path.
So which enemy is it.
This is the enemy.
And is this the patrol path.
Now it's hard to know which patrol path is which is it's kind of getting a little bit tricky.
And we might want to at some point distinguish between drawing the patrol path in a different way to
me you might want to have it really grayed out when it's just in the background.
And then when you select the patrol path or maybe even the enemy that has that patrol path then the
patrol path gets highlighted.
But at the moment that's not what I'm going to do.
We're gonna leave it as it is for now and then we might tweak this later this is the point where Rick
says you know think about what's a tweak what is really necessary at this stage of the game.
And right now this is working just fine so I'm not going to touch it.
So we've got this patrol path and we've got this enemy.
And what I want to do is find his eye controller and drag that patrol path in.
Now notice this has to be done.
This has to be changed in the scene because that patrol path exists in the scene.
And so the link to it has to be done in the scene you can see it comes up as an override of the prefab.
And that's what we need to have happen.
Because if you think about it the patrol path it can't have a reference to a patrol path it doesn't
exist in a scene.
So it is fundamentally linked to this enemy being in this particular scene.
And so it won't be applied at any kind of prefab level.
OK.
So that said he now has access to the patrol path.
What we want to do is act guarding behavior we need to change it to be more than just guarding behavior.
Now it's going to be patrol behavior which I think kind of subsumes the guarding behavior the guard
behavior is a default but no more than a default.
And if you have a patrol path you will actually patrol instead of guard so the first thing we're going
to do is implement a kind of skeleton of the logic behind patrol behavior.
What this means is that the guard position is just one of the possible next positions.
So if I take a vector three to be the next position and the guard position is the default.
But if we have a patrol path so patrol path is not equal to no then we can do our patrolling behavior
instead.
So how is that going to work.
Well in broad strokes it works like this.
If we are at the waypoint so at the waypoint we want to head towards then we need to cycle the waypoint.
And by that I mean we need to advance the waypoint we're aiming towards to be the next waypoint and
otherwise we are just going to set the next position to be equal to the get current white.
Like so and we need to put next position into start move action and I need to make some bodies for all
these methods so that it stops complaining but I'm not going to actually implement them I'm gonna leave
this up to you to implement how you're going to detect whether you're at a waypoint In fact I'll help
you with this one and then we can do the cycle waypoint and current get current waypoint as your challenges.
If you do want to have a go at implementing at a waypoint you can go ahead pause a video now but otherwise
I will tell you how to do that one and we'll do cycle waypoint and get current waypoint to later.
So the first thing is at current waypoint I'm going to do this with a configurable parameter here.
It's going to be a serialized field float waypoints tolerance and I'm going to default this to maybe
1 meter by default.
Okay.
And then what we want to do is basically say are we at that waypoints which we have now done a few times
with this distance.
So we've got the distance to play for example as a place we can base it off of.
And I'm gonna say float distance to waypoints is equal to the vector three dot distance transformed
dot position and the waypoint.
So we need to get the current waypoint in order to do this we're using methods that we haven't even
implemented yet but that's fine.
So get current waypoint that's gonna give us the distance to the waypoints and then we want to detect
whether that distance to waypoint is less than the waypoint tolerance here.
Like so.
And it's giving me an error because I'm throwing that which is weird.
I need to return.
I haven't quite done it properly.
Okay so this isn't going to work because cycle waypoint and current waypoint are not yet implemented.
So this is your challenge to finish the patrol behavior.
You're going to implement get waypoint think about whether we've got code to already help us with this
implement cycle waypoint again.
Do we have code that already helps us with this.
And are we going to need any extra state to implement these to pause the video and have a go at the
challenge okay.
Welcome back.
So as I hinted there is gonna be some state we need to remember it.
Think about it from the guard's perspective.
How does he know how to follow a patrol path.
Well one thing is he's got the map.
The patrol path in his pocket that tells him where he should go.
But also he knows where he's headed to next.
On the patrol path he needs to remember that.
So you might be tempted to do this as a vector 3 but I think the best thing to do is the index so he
knows on his map that he's got to go to point one then point two then point three and at any point he
is remembering that he needs to go to currently needs to go to point one and once he's at point one
then he needs to go to point two and so on and so forth.
So we're gonna have an int current waypoint index and the initial index that we're going to aim to go
towards is zero.
So the first waypoint in our list.
I know it's confusing 0 being the first but hey Will we get used to that as programmers.
So the current waypoint index is what we're going to use now.
As I said the get current waypoint and cycle with what we've already got code that does most of this
and it's the patrol path code.
We've got a get waypoint which given the index tells us the position.
We've got a get next index which given the index gives us the next index.
So that helps us with cycling.
So the private now needs to become public.
So I'm gonna make the next index public and the get waypoint public as well.
Then in get current waypoints we can just go ahead and return the patrol path dot get waypoints and
we can give it the current waypoint index like so.
So the current waypoint is the get waypoint to the current waypoint index.
Makes sense right now.
The cycle waypoints how are we going to implement that.
Well we're going to say that the current waypoint index is equal to the patrol path dot gets next index
of the current waypoint index.
So we have updated the current waypoint index using the troll path.
Knowledge of what the next waypoint should be.
So hopefully that should do the trick.
Let's see whether our enemy is now able to patrol by going ahead and hitting play.
Okay.
So he is attacking me which is his primary directive.
But let's get out of his way and see if he goes and does some patrolling behavior.
So he's going up to the first patrol point now.
Then he's going to the second patrol point the third patrol point the fourth patrol point and so on
you can see that's just check that he's gonna go all the way round in the loop.
Hopefully he will because the get next index is using the exact same logic as the lines.
Now I'm really happy that it's doing that because it tells us that the lines are going to be correct
with the behavior of the of the enemy as recalls.
So we've got that working at the moment it's slightly unnatural that he just follows the patrol route
continuously.
We're going to add in some dwell time in the next lecture so we'll see you there.